
# How Global Payout Platforms Can Empower Communities and Non-profits

You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty. A possible solution to this issue is using Chimoney. Chimoney allows global payouts to 130+ countries via the recipient's email and in this case the community you're sending to will be able to redeem the recieved payment to their own registered bank account, or mobile money near instantly depending on their location. This article will explore how global payouts can empower non-profits and community initiatives, using Chimoney as a solution to streamline international transfers.

## How Global Payout Systems Offer Transparency and Save You Money

A common issue that non-profits encounter when using traditional banking to fund money overseas is that most of these platforms require them to pay fees to access to some or all of their services and to make transactions.  For example, [nonprofits spend around $3 billion a year on transaction fees](https://www.zeffy.com/blog/nonprofits-paid-2-billion-in-transaction-fees-last-year). In other words, traditional banking platforms are too expensive.  Unlike traditional banks, Chimoney provides transparent and affordable payment rates, with clearly disclosed fees. This makes it easier for nonprofits to plan and budget their funding.  This plarform was started by [Uchi Uchibeke after struggling to send winners the prize money for AfriHacks, a hackathon they were hosting due to the traditional banking platform fees being expensive](https://chimoney.io/blogs/techstars-backs-chimoney-to-revolutionize-global-payouts/). From there, the winners were paid. Now no hidden fees aren’t the only way global payouts can empower your community initiative or nonprofit. Let’s check out another one.

## Overcome Geographical Barriers with Global Payout Platforms

When it comes to funding money overseas, a common issue that nonprofits and community initiatives face is that are restricted to only sending money to certain countries. For example, [Paypal only supports 25 curriences and 200 countries](https://www.paypal.com/sm/webapps/mpp/country-worldwide). This type of restriction can make it difficult for nonprofits, especially those whose mission is to aid people in need, to provide financial funding. Unlike traditional banks, global payout platforms like [Chimoney allows users make transactions anywhere in the worldwide](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). This can put nonprofits as ease as they would be able to send money overseas and in turn help, their intended audience.   Case in point, [Dream Design community's use of Chimoney's payout feature has made it easier for them to send stipends to aspiring tech leaders worldwide](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-dreamax-partnership-empowering-tech-enthusiasts/). Now no geographical barriers aren’t the only way global payouts can empower your community initiative or nonprofit. Let’s check out another one.

## How Global Payout Platforms Can Make Your Transactions Quick

As cliche as it is to say, “Time is money”, it truly is important for users to get their money on time. Sadly, traditional banking institutions tend to have restrictive delivery times, especially when it comes funding money overseas. This is because they [have to follow certain protocols from other countries](https://tipalti.com/resources/learn/global-payouts/#the-challenges-that-face-global-payouts). For example, Bank of America users who need to make international transfers can only send money [by 5:00pm Eastern time](https://www.bankofamerica.com/help/cutoff-times/) and require [the use of Swift codes](https://info.bankofamerica.com/en/digital-banking/wire-transfers), which [can slow the transfer process](https://meestpay.com/what-is-swift-money-transfer-and-its-disadvantages/). This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve to not get the funding they sent in a timely manner.  Unlike their traditional counterparts, global payout systems the waiting periods are always shorter and often times payment is instant. Nonprofits can benefit greatly from this as they don’t have to worry about the communities they serve not getting the funding they sent.  For instance, [AfricaHacks uses Chimoney's bulk payout feature](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/) to reward their hackathon winners. With a single click, all winners receive their payments instantly and can redeem them through multiple options, including bank transfers, mobile money, airtime, and gift cards.  Now before you go, there’s just one more benefit of using global payout systems for nonprofit funding.

## How Global Payout Platforms Can Give You Multiple Ways To Send Money

Even though traditional banking platforms offer people ways to send money, they tend to offer users a certain set of options. For example, [Bank of America users can only make send money overseas via their website or their mobile app](https://info.bankofamerica.com/en/digital-banking/wire-transfers) while local banks require their users to only do it at physical location. This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve might not have those mediums nor have the bank in their country. In contrast, global payout platforms like Chimoney offer users a wider range of methods users can to send their money to other people overseas. This can be helpful for nonprofits as it enables them to decide which delivery method best suits their organization and the people they serve. Case in point, [the International Student Identity Card (ISIC)'s partnership with Chimoney makes it easier for students manage their fiances](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-partners-with-isic-to-expand-global-benefits-for-chimoney-app-users/) as [they can send and receive money via email, their application, and text messaging](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). Now you know the benefits of global payout systems, let’s see how one global payout platform can empower nonprofit and communities.

## How Chimoney Empowers Communities and Non-profits

Before you go to your computer or mobile device and do a long search of global payout platforms, consider checking out Chimoney. In addition to having their own platform where users can facilitate their transactions, they also partner with other platforms to help non-profits reach more clients. For example, [OpenGiving](https://donations.chimoney.io/), a platform built by Chimoney helps non-profits and communities around the world to receive donations and get paid easily in various methods applicable to the donor through Chimoney.

## Now It's Your Turn

Whether it’s ensuring timely financial support reaches communities in need or increasing transparency for donors, global payout solutions can be the key to empowering your non-profit or community initiative to serve people in transformative ways. Take the first step towards making a greater impact and discover how Chimoney can help you unlock new possibilities for your community.

## About the Author

Christine Belzie is a technical writer and open source maintainer. Her articles have been featured on websites like FreeCodeCamp and Pieces For Developers. If you want to connect with her, check out her socials on [Linktree](https://linktr.ee/ChrissyCodes).
